Add Bright_Disputes.md proposal (#8)
use-inkubator/Ecosystem-Grants: applications/Bright_Disputes.md

Reviewer: There are a lot of spacing issues throughout (e.g random extra lines), can you clean those up?

Based on our knowlage of zk-snarks ([zk-snarks-in-substrate](https://brightinventions.pl/blog/zk-snarks-in-substrate-part-1/)), using this technology have some consequences. Creating of zk-snarks will generate some artifacts (verification / proving key). We will provide a CLI, which will simplify this process. As it shown on the diagram below Juries / Judge are going to use CLI to communicate with the smart contrant, while Owner / Contractor can use polkadot.js dApp.

![](https://i.imgur.com/WjZczZx.png)

Our target plaform for the deployment will be AlephZero, which provides zk-snarks verification.

> This project will not provide any UI. All the functionality can be tested by the polkadot.js dApp.

Reviewer 2: We would like to see full stack dApps so that user's can interact with ink!. I see that your company has UI/UX developers. Is there a reason you are not using them? 

Please consider this and adjust the budget accordingly. You do not have to build a UI, but it would be preferred!

# Bright Disputes

- **Team Name:** Bright Inventions
- **Payment Address:** 0xD75dDC4Aa3618e1417c68E5Df79ef9D66E4B1Ed9

## Project Overview :page_facing_up:
### Overview

Bright Disputes is a dApp for solving disputes. Our goal is to create a smart contract (written in ink!) which could be used to raise and solve disputes on the Substrate-based blockchains. We would like to leverage a Zk-Snarks to accomplish privacy of voting.

> The brief descritpion of this project, we will start by presenting the roles:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The brief description of this project, we will start by presenting the roles:
```

* Owner - a person who raises the dispute.
* Contractor - a person who is on the side of the dispute.
* Judge - is responsible for counting the votes.
* Jury - can votes in a dispute agains one of the sides.

Dispute can be raise by the person who is the Owner. He points a Contractor, who is a side here, to join the dispute. Both of them need to provide a description of the dispute and their position on the matter as well as paying the fees. When all formalities are fulfilled, the dispute can start. The first step is to appoint a Judge, who will be responsible for counting the votes. Than we choose Juries, who will vote against one of the sides. Jurieas as well as Judge are radonomly picked by the smart contract from the pool of Juries.

> Voteing phase will start when all Juries and Judge confirm their assignment for the dispute, by providing an escrow. If someone will not confirm their assigment, Owner / Contractor can trigger smart contract to repick persons from the Juries pool. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Voting phase will start when all Juries and Judge confirm their assignment for the dispute, by providing an escrow. If someone will not confirm their assignment, Owner / Contractor can trigger smart contract to repick persons from the Juries pool. 
```

Based on our knowlage of zk-snarks ([zk-snarks-in-substrate](https://brightinventions.pl/blog/zk-snarks-in-substrate-part-1/)), using this technology have some consequences. Creating of zk-snarks will generate some artifacts (verification / proving key). We will provide a CLI, which will simplify this process. As it shown on the diagram below Juries / Judge are going to use CLI to communicate with the smart contrant, while Owner / Contractor can use polkadot.js dApp.

![](https://i.imgur.com/WjZczZx.png)

Our target plaform for the deployment will be AlephZero, which provides zk-snarks verification.

This project will not provide any UI. All the functionality can be tested by the polkadot.js dApp.

## Team :busts_in_silhouette:

### Team members

- Michał Graliński - Rust Developer

> - Katarzyna Łukasiewicz - Project Manager

Reviewer: Is a project manager really needed for a self-contained project with a single dev?

Who would work on Bright Disputes?
- Michał - Rust Developer, for over 12 years he has been working as a C++ developer. In his career he participate in various projects, starting from the embedded devices, automotive, mobile games and ending on the financial systems. Right now he is focused on the blockchain technology.
- Kasia - she has been working with agile methods for over 10 years, both as a researcher and a practitioner. She believes in teamwork and a power of user centered mindset. With experience in leading international projects, she knows how to support and encourage timely and high quality deliveries.

> ### Team Code Repos

Reviewer: I don't really see any code activity from either team member. Do you have any other code samples or references you can provide?

Author: Indeed, we usually work under our Bright Inventions name, hence the https://github.com/bright is the repository that contains the code (it's the one mentioned above our github links). Some of the Rust work can be found for example here: https://github.com/bright/zk-snarks-with-substrate/ and here https://github.com/bright/substrate-raft/

-  https://github.com/bright

Team Members:
-  Michał: https://github.com/mgralinski-bright
-  Kasia: https://github.com/bufta

### Team LinkedIn Profiles

- https://www.linkedin.com/in/michal-gralinski-b464152/
- https://www.linkedin.com/in/katarzyna-łukasiewicz-b473901aa/

## Development Status :open_book:

The result of our research regarding the solutions and architecture has been described in this proposal.

## Development Roadmap :nut_and_bolt:

### Overview

- **Total Estimated Duration:** 4,5 months

> - **Full-Time Equivalent (FTE):** 1,1

Reviewer: Is the 0,1 for the "cost" of the project manager?

Author: Yes, it is. It's a small portion of the whole budget plan, however if it's still an issue, we can plan to reduce my engagement in the whole process.

- **Total Costs:** 42 000 USD

### Milestone 1 Example — Basic functionality

- **Estimated duration:** 1 month
- **FTE:**  1,1
- **Costs:**  10 000 USD

| Number | Deliverable | Specification |
| -----: | ----------- | ------------- |
| **0a.** | License | MIT |
| **0b.** | Documentation | We will provide **inline documentation** of the code. |
| **0c.** | Testing and Testing Guide | Core functions will be fully covered by comprehensive unit tests to ensure functionality and robustness. In the guide, we will describe how to run these tests. |
| **0d.** | Docker | We will provide a Dockerfile(s) that can be used to test all the functionality delivered with this milestone. |

> | 1. | Repository | We will create a GitHub repository for Dispute project.

Reviewer: nitpick: This doesn't need to be an explicit deliverable

Reviewer 2: No need to remove it
